.. _Clustering:

Clustering
================================================================================

The clustering module performs a holistic clustering analysis of the samples. The main output of this feature is twofold: i) It generates a \texttt{heatmap} of samples and ii) It also provides a \texttt{PCA}/\texttt{tSNE} plot of samples obtained by principal components analysis or t-distributed stochastic embedding algorithms \cite{witten2009penalized, van2014accelerating}.

The \texttt{heatmap} analysis can be performed on a gene level expression or gene set level expression in which, for each gene set (or pathway), an average expression is computed from the gene expression data using summary methods such as GSVA and ssGSEA \cite{hanzelmann2013gsva}. During the \texttt{heatmap} generation, users have various option that they can select, such as splitting the samples by a phenotype class provided in the data (eg, tissue, cell type, or gender). In addition, users have to specify the top N = {50, 500} features to be used in the heatmap for hierarchical clustering. The criteria to select the top features are: 1) sd - features with the highest standard deviation across all the samples, 2) biomarker - features that are overexpressed in each phenotype class compared to the rest, 3) pca - principal components computed by the \texttt{irlba}  package \cite{witten2009penalized}. The top features in the heatmap are then divided into five clusters based on their expression profiles. For each cluster, the platform provides a functional annotation under the \texttt{annotate cluster} section using more than 42 published reference databases, including but not limited to well-known databases such as MSigDB, KEGG and GO \cite{liberzon2011molecular, kanehisa2000kegg, gene2004gene} (\textbf{Supp. Fig. 9}).

PCA and t-SNE plots can be found in the \texttt{PCA}/\texttt{tSNE} tab, which shows the relationship between samples in 2D as well as in 3D space for visual analytics. Users can customise the PCA/tSNE plot using a phenotype class provided in the data (\textbf{Supp. Fig. 10}).