.. _GSE72056:

GSE72056: melanoma single-cell dataset
================================================================================

Data set
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To illustrate the use cases of the Omics Playground, we reanalyzed some publics
data sets. For single-cell RNA-seq data, we downloaded the melanoma data set 
`GSE72056 <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo/query/acc.cgi?acc=GSE72056>`__ 
of `Tirosh et al <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27124452>`__. 

t-SNE clustering
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Our platform recapitulates well the original findings of the paper. 
The t-SNE clustering separates the different cell types. 

Volcano plots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\textbf{Fig. \ref{results_figure2}b} and \textbf{\ref{results_figure2}c} show the 
volcano plot, MA plot and most differentially expressed genes between malignant 
and non-malignant cells. 

CNV plots
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The CNV map (\textbf{Fig. \ref{results_figure2}d}) confirms the major chromosomal
copy number variations found in the malignant cells. 

Signature
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\textbf{Fig. \ref{results_figure2}e} shows high enrichment of a immune checkpoint
signature, particularly concentrated in the T cells. 

Biomarker
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The biomarker heatmap (\textbf{Fig. \ref{results_figure2}f}) highlights the marker
genes for each cell type. Each gene cluster is furthermore automatically annotated
with the most correlated gene sets (\textbf{Fig. \ref{results_figure2}g}). 

